jabalia this refugee camp which was
struck by Israel in the last few hours
is one of the refugee camps in Gaza many
of them in fact but it's the biggest one
and 70% of the residents of Gaza are
refugees or descendants of those who
were forcibly displaced by Israel Over
Decades of its territorial expansion and
occupation what Gaza is referred to as
the world's largest open air prison and
is one of the most densely populated
areas on Earth Michael Apple gives us
some context
this is what Palestine looked like in
1917 that was before British forces
conquered it ating the ottoman Turks on
the 2nd of November of that year
Britain's foreign secretary Arthur bfor
issued the belf for declaration it was a
pledge to establish a home for the
Jewish people in Palestine without
prejudicing the Civil or religious
rights of existing Palestinian
communities with the carving up of the
Ottoman Empire at the end of the first
world war the League of Nations handed
Britain the Mandate over Palestine in
1922 the Jewish population there Grew
From 6% in 1918 to 33% by
1947 by May the following year the
British mandate expired marking the
creation of Israel known by Palestinians
as the nakba or
catastrophe the establishment of isra in
1948 triggered the first Arab Israeli
War Israeli forces captured 78% of
historic Palestine 34 of a million
Palestinians were expelled or forced
from their homes the Palestinian
territory was split in two its people
being forced to settle in Gaza and the
West
Bank during the 6 day war in June
1967 Israel occupied all of historic
Palestine
and expelled a further 300,000
people its forces also captured the
Golan Heights from Syria and the Sinai
Peninsula from Egypt in 1993 the Oslo
Accords were signed in Washington
DC they established the Palestinian
Authority that would govern internal
security administration and civilian
Affairs for what was supposed to be an
inim period that divided the West Bank
into areas a b and c with each giving
the newly created Authority limited
degrees of control in
2005 Israel's policy of disengagement
led to its withdrawal from Gaza and
removal of thousands of Jewish settlers
on the 12th of September that year the
last Israeli forces left the Gaza Strip
literally closing the gate on the
territory and establishing a siege that
has been maintained ever since Mike
leppel El
jazer joining us now on the phone is yri
alul who is a Palestinian writer and a
descendant of Palestinian refugees from
1948 he's on the line from gaza's Beach
refugee camp in the north thank you so
much uh for speaking to us uh we are
talking uh about the jabala refugee camp
which is the largest in Gaza of course
but there are several other refugee
camps can you tell us first what life is
like for people who live in these camps
yeah uh good evening just let me before
to answer your question please I just
want to tell you just a few minutes ago
my my child is asking me if they killed
us will I see you after death this is
the question of a child because we are
waiting as as a refugee camp we are
staying residence in a refugee camp
waiting our death our the Bloodshed
which is comes from the Israeli
occupation forces and my wife is crying
until now what happened in jabalia Camp
in the North Area happened just in just
two hours ago in the middle of Gaza
where the Israeli called the
Palestinians refugees to leave and to go
and to immigrate to that place to the
southern area they targeted a tower
killed many of the Palestinians so what
happened in jabalia uh not just uh tens
were killed maybe hundreds were killed
and hundreds were injured severely
injured a children uh women most of them
are women how could you yeah could you
imagine this is not a massacre it's it's
not just a massacre it's a genocide it's
it's really ethnic cleansing 25 days
killing Palestinians Killing Children
Killing uh women there are the air
strikes every night we don't sleep we
don't eat we don't find fuel we don't
find electricity we can't go to the
bathrooms we can't do anything we're
just they said that we are animals and
unfortunately they are treating with us
like we are animals and the world is
silent the world is is is giving the
permission the legit legitimacy from the
United States to the to the Israelis to
do whatever they want of the
Palestinians this is a collective
punishment of the civilians who lives in
Gaza under siege for about 17 years and
under incubation for about 75
years um indeed and and um and it's uh
you know hearing you talk about your
daughter and her words to you is really
heartbreaking and of course the fear is
you see that what happened at jabalia
could happen to any of the refugee camps
inside the Gaza street because it's
indiscriminate the bombing has been
indiscriminate we've seen hospitals
bombed uh refugee camps where civilians
live bomb but the Israelis of course
will say that they're targeting
militants Who hide in these refugee
camps uh who have arms hidden in these
refugee camps can you tell us what what
life is like these are areas where
civilians actually
live okay thank you just just to let you
know today and also this is the story
today uh just maybe before 3 hours my my
son is is injured because he went to the
our neighbors house because they left
the area where we live to the sou area
so we don't have War to drink can you
imagine you don't have water you don't
have water to drink so my my I asked my
my my child my son to go through
a to go to the neighbor's house and and
and bring water because they left the
house we don't have electricity we don't
have food so situation and in the
streets no fuel now just let me tell you
today morning in the beach camp also
there were a massacre uh maybe three uh
30 Palestinians were killed civilian
Palestinians were killed and the people
who carried these buddies carried the
Buddies by horses and by bikes you don't
have ambulances to take these buddies to
the hospital they targeted last night
the Catholic uh Cultural Center where we
make the cultural uh uh issues and and
activities and also just let me tell you
something last night I went to my
neighbors house because they targeted it
and I saw a cat I saw a cat eating
something so my neighbor is telling me
that this is a p a a piece of budy
because after the
chillings they targeted the house the
Buddies were cut and and and they
collected it so the cat comes to a fresh
body uh and try to eat it can you
imagine so what you describ to us is
absolutely horrifying what you describe
to us is is horrifying yory and um it
it's just unfathomable unbelievable to
to to see this happening
today uh the hospital we're looking at
pictures of the Indonesian hospital near
jabala refugee camp which was struck by
Israel and as you've said there's no
water to drink these hospitals are
completely
overstretched do people still have any
hope where do they turn to for
hope for to talk about hope we are under
occupation for about 75 years we are
talking that we need our rights it's
until now recognize you resolutions
where is the hope
of an ethnic cleansing committed by the
the latest occupation in the world
supported by the European community
supported by the the international
community supported by the United States
where I should be now in in in Iowa in
Iowa University I got the opportunity
from the state department to be a part
of of international writing program and
I should be in Iowa at this time but
unfortunately because there were no
airports no corts and no borders I
couldn't leave my country to participate
in such a program this but and and I
think if just we have a a one person
Palestinian we will seek our freedom and
we call for freedom and really just I'm
tell you in the the from the harm and
harsh situation thank you for jazer
because you really our voice you are a
free people for a free Palestinians who
seek the freedom seeks the dignity seeks
you know just we need to just a shable
life we don't need anything people here
my cousin is King me now just
15 minutes is telling me just look at
the faces of the people in the street
everything is sad people are sad yeah
everything gets horrified and and so
this is the situation jabalia is a
jabalia camp Beach campat camp ra
crushing RAF area where the South and
the middle in the north everything is
targeted civilians innocent ambulances
Civ civil defense everything in Gaza is
targeted by the Israelis and then I'm
sorry just and and and then Netanyahu
last night in his conference and saying
that he's Ling he's saying that we
are we we try we try to just concentrate
on the militant groups there were no
Militan in groups in Gaza we don't see
them we are just innocent this is a
collective punishment everywhere and
everything in Gaza as you say is being
targeted us three uh we've heard from
many experts who've said that isra
Israel's strategy right now is to cut
the territory in two isolate the north
from the south and there's also pressure
on Egypt to take in people from Gaza uh
to take them into the
Sinai if you had if you had the
opportunity to leave if you could leave
Gaza today would you do it knowing that
you couldn't come back you know we were
now just uh talking with my my father
and my
uncle we go to the sou area of Gaza we
can't because the Israeli cut Gaza and
made many parts not only two parts two
sides Israel now is is is it comes to
into Gaza and they invaded Gaza and they
are not only in two places in too many
places so we can't leave we are just
waiting our our death we are waiting the
the
our you know just how could you sleep
and you imagine that a rocket comes from
an Israeli strike or a war plane and
comes into your house and demolish it
this is what we are waiting for but if
we finish if the war finishes if the
people and the world want us to leave
Gaza we would leave it we will go to
anywhere we don't call the Israelis if
they don't want give us our rights we we
just want us to revive we are not
animals we are humans we have hopes we
have Ambitions we have
dreams yri thank you so much for talking
to us yri Alo a Palestinian writer and a
descendant of Palestinian refugees from